Do you know bus 6411? It is a route bus that takes about 2 hours from Garosu Park in Guro-gu, Seoul to Gangnam to Gaepo-dong Jugong 2nd Complex. Bus 6411 departs at 4 AM every day. The first bus departing at 4 AM and the second bus departing around 4:05 are about 15 minutes after departure, and when you go through Sindorim and Guro Market, seats are full and people go all the way to the hallway inside the bus. The scenery is happening every day.
New people rarely get on. Bus 6411 is boarded by the same person at the same stop at the same time every morning. So, even though it is a city bus, it is a very unusual bus that knows almost everyone who gets on and off at any stop in Gangnam as if there is a stationary seat.
Those who take this bus are those who wake up at 3 AM and need to go to the office building in Gangnam at 5:30 AM. Because it is a time when the subway does not go, I take this bus every day. Everyone knows who, if any, missed work, and who didn't get there.
However, after some time, there are people who use this bus in the morning and during the day, and there are also people who use it on the way home. Few people know whether they are heading to the end point after dropping off their 5,60 aunts at various stops in the city.
The same goes for the workplace where they go to work in the morning. Many office workers, such as sons and daughters, go in and out of the building, but few are conscious of being cleaned and maintained by aunts who attend the building at 5:30 in the morning. These people have had names since birth, but they are not called by those names. It's just her. It's just a cleaning agent. Those who receive 850,000 won a month are truly invisible. They are people who live with us without being able to feel it.
The same goes for non-regular workers who are now on the high-voltage steel tower of Hyundai Motor Company. The same is true for Ssangyong Motor's workers who have died in 23. The five people who disappeared from that Namildang building, which has been neglected for years in Yongsan, are also transparent people.
I ask myself. These are people who have to go to bed early without seeing the nine o'clock news. So these people don't know Yoo Si-min and don't know Shim Sang-jung and can gather this Roh Hoe-chan. However, there may have been a moment when these people's lives were not difficult. Where were we when these people were looking for people like us in those difficulties? Was they in front of them? Was it out of their reach. Was there really where their voices were heard?
I will not blame anyone. We will be able to confirm the significance of this political party that we are creating today when it exists for the many invisible people who have actually moved Korea. In fact, for those of us, we have been a transparent party. We screamed out loud that we were political, but we weren't within reach when they needed it. A political party that exists but is not visible. That is what the Korean Progressive Party has been like. Now I want to bring this party with you to a place where they can smell and hold it. Are you ready?
